Cloud
With the cloud we don't buy resources but we rent resources
We use resources when there is a high load and release them when there is a decrease in load.
Thuis is called on demand resource provisioning

You rent resources based on demand of your applications

Each of the popular cloud providers provide millions of servers and they give best available deals from the infrastructure providers
You don't need to guess the capacity oof your applications anymore. If the load increases we can get new resources 
You can go global in minutes using cloud
Setting up database becomes easy using cloud
You don't need data centers anymore

AWS
It is the leading cloud service providers
It provides most(200+) services
It is reliable cost effective and secure

Create a free tier AWS account
Use Root user and password credentials to signup for AWShaaaa
Don't use Root user and password for day to day activities

IAM&Best practices
IAM : Identity and Access Management
IAM checks whether the loggedin user is the right user or not and does he have proper authorisation
Instead of root  user  for day to day activities create another IAM user and use it for day to day activities

You can create IAM Users/groups and manage permissions to them

IAM User password :7qP4v#%}

https://339712844819.signin.aws.amazon.com/console  - URL for IAM user

Initially you need yto create AWS account and those credentials will be your root username and password.
But its not recommended to use root username and password for AWS account
So we need to create IAM user for our day to day activities
You need to go to Amazon management console and search for IAM and create a group with required privileges and add users to that group

You can deploy your applications in different parts of your world in minutes using regions and zones

Consider an examople
You deployed your application in a datacenter in London
1. When users from different parts of the world tries to access the application it will give slow access for users(high latency)
2. If the data center crashes your application goes down so that others can't use the application anymore as it is crashed

So you can setup multiple datacenters in multiple regions so that the latency will improve as well as if a datacenter is down we can use other datacenter

It is really difficult to setup datacenters all around the world as the infrastructure cost will be more

So cloud providers like AWS provides 25 regions acrosee the world and there are new regions added in every year.

A region is a geographic location where we can host our resources

By having different locations AWS makes it really easy to deploy our applications

Multiple regions advantages
High availability  -> Even if one region goes down yoou can use other regions
Low latency  -> you can serve your user from nearest region to them
Global footprint -> You can deploy your applications to any part of your world
Adherence to government regulations

Availability zones
AWS provides multiple availability zones in each of the regions
Each availability zone is a set of one or more data centers
Each availability zone has independent and redundant power,networking and connectivity
All Availabilityzones in a region are connected through low latency links
So there will be a very fast communication with the applicaitons deployed in same availability zone

Advantage is that increase availability and fault tolerance in same region.

EC2(Elastic Compute cloud) Fundamentales
In  corporate data centers applications are deployed to physical servers
In cloud we will rent something called virtual machines
In AWS Virtual machines are called EC2 Instances
If you want to create a virtual machine in AWS we will create a EC2 instance
EC2 Servcie helps us in creating EC2 instances/VMs

Features of EC2
Create and manage lifecycle of EC2 instances
You can also attach storage to EC2 instance
You can make use of something called Amazon EBS(Elastic Block Store) to attach database to EC2instance
You can make use of EC2 to create Elastic Block Store Instances and attach them to your EC2instance
You can also do load balancinbg for multiple EC2 instances


To create EC2 Instance after logging in to Amazon management console search for EC2 and click on EC2 Instance and fill all the details

Application Machine Image(AMI)
An AMI is a template that contains the software configuration (operating system, application server, and applications)
 required to launch your instance. Search or Browse for AMIs if you don’t see what you are looking for below
 
 AMI is all about your Software and Instance type is all about your hardware
 Each instance will have different amount of memory different VCPUS 
 
 You need to create a key pair to securely connect to EC2
 
 Under Security group you can confugure what security is coming to your instance and what traffic is going out of your instance
 
 After creating a EC2 instance you can connect tto it by selecting it and clicking on connect
 There vwill be multiple approaches to connecrrt to your EC2 instance.
 We will use EC2 instance connect to connect to EC2 instance.

Once connected it will open a console window where we can type commands
you can innstall any software in this EC2 instance like python node.js java

You ewill have a Public IP address for a EC2 Instance and if you want to install a application in EC2 instance you can use this public ip address
to access that specific application

You can stop/Reboot or terminate the instance.
Stopping will stop the instance temporarily later you can start it again.
Terminating will terminate it entirely the instance will be deleted.

You can click on the instance and you will get the details regarding that particular instance
We can also monitor metrics of your EC2 instance by goign to Monitoring and also security by going to security tab for that particular instance.

In AWS the service which tracks your metrics is Cloudwatch.

You can also tags in tags tab

sudo su
yum update -y
yum install httpd
 systemctl start httpd - to start the server that is installed
 
 Once the server is started we can access it using the public ip address. Wwe just need to give the public IP address in a new window.
But before that we need to configure security groups. By default we are allowing requests only from SSH and not HTTP 

If you connect to a instnace and if you want to become a super user for that instance you can give sudo su command after connecting to the instance
After becoming a super user you can install any software you want on EC2 instance.

To install sofware in any of the OS we use package manageers.
In Amazon Linux 2 we use yum package manager 
yum update -y -> it is used to update package manager
To install a web server the command is yum install httpd. It will install a apache server
 systemctl start httpd - to start the server that is installed
 
 Once the server is started we can access it using the public ip address. Wwe just need to give the public IP address in a new window.
But before that we need to configure security groups. By default we are allowing requests only from SSH and not HTTP 
We need to allow requests even from http yto access the server
To change the security we need to go to security groups which is configured earlier and add a inbound rule http to allow access from everywhere.

Important EC2 Concepts
Amazon Machine Image - > Which OS and which software do you want on EC2 instance. Thats what AMI represents. It provides a starting point for your 
OS and you can also customize what software uyou want
AWS provides lot of pre-built AMIs
Instance Families -> Helps you to choose the right family of hardware(General purpose or Compute/Storage/Memory Optimized or CPU)
Instance sizes -> Choose the right quantity of hardware(ex -2 vCPUS, 4GB of memory)
Elastic Block Store -> Helps you to attach Disks to EC2 instances(Block Storage)
Security group -> Virtual firewall to control incoming and outgoing traffic to/from AWS resources(EC2 instances, databases)
Key Pair -> Key pair consists of a public and private key. Public key is directly stored in EC2 Instance. Private key is stored by customer
If you want to connect to EC2 instance you need private key.


IaaS(Infrastructure as a Service) -> It is only about using infrastructure from the cloud provider
Ex:  you will use VMs provided by cloud to deploy your applications/databases
When you use IaaS cloud provider is responsible for hardware networking and virtuallisation(If youy are using AWS you can make use of EC2 instance to create virtual machines)
you are responsible for everything else
For ex: you want to run a python aplication on a Linux OS. You will be responsible for installing Linux, python application and also responsible
for any linux updates
We will also be responsible for application and runtime
You are also responsible for load balancing
You are also responsible for auto scaling
You are also responsible for availabilty

The alternative to IaaS is PaaS. Use a platform which is provided by Clou d
PaaS(Platform as a Service) -> Cloud provider is responsible for hardware networking and virtuallisation,application and runtime,load balancing
,auto scaling and availability
You are only responsible for Configuration of application and services and Application code
You just need to focus on code of your application

Ex: 
Compute options : These are the options that helps us to run Python,Java,node.js applications in cloud
AWS Beanstalk is a example of PaaS.Azure App service is Microsoft cloud provider which is an example of PaaS
Google App Engine is provided by Google
You also have plenty of relational and NoSQL databases as well. Amazon RDS is an example of relational transactional database.

AWS Elastic Beanstalk -> simplest way to deploy and scale your web applications in AWS.
It supports end to end applicaitons management.
It supports java,.NET,Python , Docker applications

Features
Automatic load balancing : if you have multiple EC2 instances AWS elastic beanstalk will do load balancing
Auto Scaling : 
It can also perform managed platform updates. If  there is OS update it will be done by beanstalk

Auto Scaling group and Elastic load balancing
If there are a millions of users you need to create multiple ECS instances. AWS have Auto Scaling Groups which simplifies the creation of .multiple
EC2 instances
Auto Scaling groups allow you to create and manage a group of EC2 instances
Auto Scaling group increases or decreases the instances based on the load that is coming in

Once we have multiple EC2 instances Elastic load balancing helps to distribute load between the instances
 
You need to create Auto Scaling group and Elastic Load balancing mmanually

Easiest way to setup EC2 instances with Auto Scaling group and Elastic Load balancing in AWS is to make use of PaaS in AWS which is Elastic Beanstalk

If i want to setup a application using EC2 instance then i need to create an EC2 instance, then install the right runt ime on it like java or python
and then install the application there.

But Elastic Beanstalk enables us to give all those responsibilities to AWS.

You can creartre a application in AWS Management console by going to Elastic beanstalk and clicking on create a applicaiton.
X-Ray is the tracing service in AWS. If you want to trace your request across multiple microservices you can enable it

Elastic beanstalk will create an EC2 instance install the application on it and OS for you and deployed the application on it as well
This EC2 instance is created as part of auto scaling group.

We can create environments like QA,DEV,PROD environment
 
Elastic beanstalk also keeps ttrack of your application versions using elastic beanstalk.
Elastic beanstalk by default provides the capability to create different versions of your applications different environments for each application

Containers and container orchestration
Microservices arfchitecture is nothing but building small focussed microservices which are independently deployable.
Microservices architecture provides flexibility to innovate and build applications in different programming language.
But because of this deployments are really complex as each programming language application will be different from others.
Thats where container comes into picture

Docker is one of the most popular ways of building container images
Docker creates docker image for each microservice.
Docker has all needs of a microservice.
like Application runtime
It also containes application code and depdendicies.
Because of this it runs the same way on any infrastructure.

Advantages of Docker
It is cloud neutral. You can run it  in any cloud the same way
It also brings standardization i.e., the way you can monitor,deploy any application remains the same way.It doesn't matter whats inside the image.
Docker containers are light weight
Alternative to Docker is to use virtual machines.
In a virtual machine we had Guest OS and guest OS has a big performance impact
Docker provides isolation for containers

Container orchestration
Challenges usiing microservices
you want to scale each microservice based on demand(auto scaling)
you want microservices to find each other(service discovery)
you want to load balance between multiple instances of a microservice.
you want to check failing microservice and replace it with a new one.
you want to release new versions without downtime.

Container orchestration tools provides all the above features
With a container orchestration you can create a cluster(you can say you want cluster of virtual machines) and you can use a container orchestration tool
to deploy your microservices to your cluster.
you can provide container image and configuration to container orchestrator and thre container orchestrator would deploy your microservice to the cluster.

Container Orchestration options
Kubernetes is one of the most popular container orchestration tools today(it is cloud neutral can be run in any cloud)
 and the service if you want to make use of kubernetes is Amazon EKS(Elastic service for kubernetes)
 EKS does not have a free tier
 
AWS also has AWS Specific container orchestration tool
Amazon Elastic Container Service(ECS)

In addition to ECS and EKS we have fargate. Fargate is serverless ECS and EKS.
Whenever you are using ECS or EKS you need to manage the cluster you need to decide how many EC2 instances are should be in the cluster. You need to decide
what OS ,what Hardware should be used for the EC2 instances in the cluster.
When you are using Fargate no need to worry about all that.
You just need to specify your microservice configuration and fargate would take care of the cluster.
AWS Fargate doesn't have a free tier

Whenever we are talking about ECS there is a hierarchy. The first thing youu need to create is something called a cluster.
Cluster is the hardware that you need to run your applications.
So you'd create cluster with a set of nodes
Container is the final container you would want to run
There miight be a situation where you want to run 2 containers together.
That is why in ECS we have a concept of a task. A task is a group of tasks
A service is a group of tasks.
Fior instance if i want 10 instances of a microservice i can define that on my service.

Serverless
If you want to deploy your application you need to think about where to deploy what kind of server which OS . How to take care of scaling and availability of application

But if you don't want to worry about these things and focus only on code you can go with serverless
Serverless doesn't mean no servers
even when we run on serverless the application still runs on server
The important thing is you don't need to worry about server. Cloud platform takes care of everything for you
Serverless means not at all worrying about infrastructure. You don't even know where your application is running

With serverless you get flexible scaling and automated high availability
When you are making use if serverless service you don't pay for server you pay for number of requests

Most popular serverless service in AWS is AWS Lambda
AWS Lambbda supports wide variety of languages

Tou can configure max amount of memory associated with your lambda function. Higher memory higher cost
you can associate a temporary storage with your lambda function.
Default is 512 mb and you can increase up to 10GB

YOU can configure timeout.The maximum timeout is 15 minutes
the way you can give permissions to your lambda function is by configuring execution role.

You can give a url to your lambda function by configuring function url
you can also choose what type of authentication is required for your url
You can use this url to invoke the lambda function

You can also configure environment variables like dev qa staging
Environment variables are key value pairs

AWS Lambda provides few pre defined environment variables.
go to AWS Lambda environment variable documentation

You can associate tags to your lambda function
you can run lambda function in a private network.

Unreserved account Concurrency represents how many lambda function executions can be happenning in parallel across your account.
By default you can have only 10




